---
toc: true
layout: post
description: Explaining the different purposes of programs and how it works. 
categories: [markdown]
title: 1.2 Program Design & Development 
---


Lightly Review Videos and take notes on topics with Blog
Establish specific purpose of your program, brain storm and brain write ideas. Everything should be blogged.
Determine requirements (what you are going to do) and constraints (what you are not going to do), consider time and requirement to share project at the beginning of November
Describe the impact of your project. Think about the positive and potentially negative aspects of the project.
Use Agile Development process to manage the programming process (plan and make steps), use Issues and Kanban/SCRUM Board
Be sure to figure out some preliminary roles in team for design, development, deployment and test within your team, make sure roles are highlighted in your Issues and SCRUM Board
Be sure to acknowledge sources and inspiration used in establishing and creating your project


## Hacks
1. Brain Write. The process of just elaborating on ideas and sharing them with your team.
2. Wire Frame, Concept. Before coding start to outline what the project will look like.
3. Modeling or UML. Before coding what data will you need. Think about data behavior, data interaction, or data description. Modeling and UML help with visualization.

4. Frontend. Wire Frame development is better than coding, at early stages. But if you have clear idea and can articulate it in HTML, CSS, and/or JavaScript.
5. Backend. Jupyter notebooks is a great way to thing about data and outputs. Often a console program can help you imagine data as well as interaction.