---
title: Blog Questions/Reflection of 5.1-5.5
layout: post 
description: Beneficial and Harmful Effects, Digital Divide, Computing Bias, Crowdsourcing
---

# 5.1 Questions

1. Come up with three of your own Beneficial and corresponding Harmful Effects of our project
- Beneficial:
    1. Helps people with planning trips
    2. Gives honest feedback/reviews about different activities and places, which then they could use to improve on those activities and places.
    3. Lets people know the best local and tourist parts of a trip that people should go to. 
- Harmful:
    1. Can have biased information 
    2. Can potentially spread hate or negative about specific places/people/activities, which would cause those places to be less popular
    3. Can have spam accounts to promote certain places/activities or karens/bots on the website 
2. Talk about dopamine issues above. Real? Parent conspiracy? Anything that is impacting your personal study and success in High School?
- Dopamine issues are real. When someone does something that gives them dopamine, positive/beneficial or negative/harmful, that person will crave that good feeling again and therefore continue to do that thing more and more. An addiction would most likely be developed and therefore it could be a top priority, being very time-consuming and distracting to other important aspects of your life. 
- My sport/work impacts my personal study and success in school, because in chronological order I put my sport/work first. I fit homework around that schedule which is really tough sometimes.  
- My phone impacts my personal study and success in school, because social media and communicating with my friends is very distracting. If my phone is near me while doing homework I will probably check my notifications pretty often, or as each time my phone turns on when I receive a notification. 


# 5.2 Questions

1. How does someone empower themselves in a digital world?
- Someone empowers themselves in a digital world by creating/inventing/discovering something new digitally and using the internet to share their experience. Someone can become really well informed about certain topics and inform others digitally. The more knowledge someone has and a platform to actually share it, the more digitally powerful they are. 
2. How does someone that is empowered help someone that is not empowered? Describe something you could do at Del Norte HS.
- Some that is empowered can help someone that is not empowered by sharing their power and knowledge with them, or giving them a hand in topics/situations that they need extra help in. Or, they could just be someone there to talk to/listen to the not empowered person. At Del Norte Highschool, something I could do is tutor ones who need extra help in certain subjects. One way someone empowered at this school can help someone not empowered is like a staff member/teacher acting as a mentor or safe space for a student to talk to. The staff/teachers have more credibility and are sort of higher on the hierarchy at school. 
3. Is paper or red tape blocking digital empowerment? Are there such barriers at Del Norte? Elsewhere?
- Yes, paper/red tape/the government is blocking digital empowerment. They have the power to censor or block out certain information that some may have. There are such barriers at Del Norte High School and everywhere else. Everywhere there is people with more power than others, teachers over students, adults over kids, and more. It is usually judged off of age and experience, which really is not the case. But some barriers at this school are things that go on with staff that should include informing everyone at this school, but information will always be restricted from others in one way or another. 


# Day 1 Reflection
1. What are pros/cons on internet blockers at router and lack of admin password on lab machines at school?
- Pros:
    1. Block out things that are inappropriate to be accessed during school or on/around campus
    2. Only allow people who attend school to access the WIFI, people could be prevented from accessing things more than the WIFI
- Cons:
    1. The WIFI and internet are often much slower, even in sending messages or something
2. What concerns do you have personally about the digital divide?  For yourself or for others.
- Concerns I personally have about the digital divide is how far behind the poorer people are going to fall behind. Eventually, everything is going to be technology and not "on paper" or traditional, like how many 3rd world countries function. If they fall behind, who is going to help them? The countries that become more digitally advanced will probably become greedy and selfish with the power that they have. They could take advantage of others and manipulate them to benefit themselves. 

# 5.3 Summary  
1. Google “What age groups use Facebook” vs “… TikTok”? What does the data say? Is there purposeful exclusion in these platforms? Is it harmful? Should it be corrected? Is it good business?
- Facebook is more for older people and TikTok is for a younger audience. There is not really purposeful exclusion from what I see on TikTok. It gives you a pool of content and based on how you interact with certain topics, the more it will be skewed to you and put on your feed to keep you entertained. It can be harmful as you get biased information, and one-sided stories. I often get heavily opinionated videos about certain topics. 
2. Why do virtual assistants have female voices? Amazon, Alexa Google, Apple Siri. Was this purposeful? Is it harmful? Should it be corrected? Is it good business?
- Maybe some sort of psychologic idea behind it, like a motherly nature as you grow up. Maybe they are more prone to listen to female voices. I think it was intentional, but there are also corrections to it where people can choose male voices as well. 
3. Talk about an algorithm that influences your decisions, think about these companies (ie FAANG - Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Netflix, Google)
- Netflix will give you recommendations once you finish a series or movie based on genre or how similar it is. 
- Google and Amazon will give you ads for profit from different businesses based on how you react to certain ads and posts. 
4. HP computers are racist
- It was not intentional for the computer feature to follow a white woman's face but not a black man's face. It was testing errors, probably an old camera, the lighting was off, and they did not have enough diversity during the making of it. HP probably tested more on white people since it was 13 years ago so it was not trained and was not able to recognize other skin tones. 

# 5.4 Summary
1. CompSci has 150 ish principles students. Describe a crowdsource idea and how you might initiate it in our environment?
- My team could send out the review section of our website to the CompSci students. There is a section about landmarks/activities in SD County so since it is our area that we are in we have great and honest inputs about it. 
2. What about Del Norte crowdsourcing? Could your project be better with crowdsourcing?
- Yes our project could be better with crowdsourcing because many of us have been living within San Diego County or is somewhat familiar with the area. Our project is about places in SD County so in the review section/feature we have, it would be great to have local people's input on various places. 
3. What kind of data could you capture at N@tM to make evening interesting? Perhaps use this data to impress Teachers during finals week.
- Related to our project we could capture or collect data by crowdsourcing families, teachers, and students at Night at the Museum. We could ask questions sort of like surveying, asking about their favorite places in San Diego County and questions following up with it. 